# Ozone-pollution
The project for The Data Incubator Fellowship

Ground-level ozone is one of the five major air pollutants in the U.S., which are regulated by the Clean Air Act. The ground-level ozone is not created naturally but by chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the presence of sunlight. High concentration of ground-level ozone can be harmful to people, irritating the respiratory system and aggravating asthma and chronic lung diseases, even causing permanent lung damage. These effects can be worse in children and exercising people. The ozone precursors, NOx and VOCs, mainly come from human activities like gasoline combustion and the evaporation of liquid fuels. Therefore, this project wants to explore the relationship between ozone pollution pattern and human activities and aims to provide the suggestion for ozone pollution improvement. I use the ozone and VOC hourly data in 2017 from EPA website, and target on the California region due to the high population and heavy reliance on vehicles. From the preliminary data exploration, we can see that the average ozone and VOCs concentrations both have a daily cycle. VOCs concentration is high in the early morning, implicating the rush hours from home to work. Ozone concentration becomes high afterward, perhaps due to the reactions between VOCs and NOx. Besides, we can see from the boxplots that the difference among counties is significant, which will be further explored. Future analysis is planned to include climate data like the UV index and near-ground temperature since the generation of ground-level ozone is highly influenced by sunlight and heat. This project hopes to establish the prediction model for ground-level ozone concentration based on historical data and weather information.
